General Considerations:
	Functional Reactive Programming
		RXjs
			observables - represents variables as a stream of values over time
			Pass around streams

	Shared Git Repo & Google Drive
		branching system

Michael Background:
	920 number
	took 431 w/ tian
	took js programming with goyal (summer?)

Michael's Ideas so far:
	1. Create js libarary that accomplishses the same things Thingsboard + node-red do

	2. The library encapsulates different protocols (MQTT, http, etc) and makes connections, delivers/recieves the json messages

	3. Node-Red is powerful due to large number/variety of nodes offered



Questions:
	Do spark analytics functions need to convert dynamic stream into static batches or arrays? 




ACTUAL MEETING

	1. your grand vision

		Create an agnostic, purely functional Nodejs library for supporting various streaming encodings for functional composition

		Create a npm package for library

		Use function reactive programming after Nodejs stream proof of concept is deemed feasible

		Rapid prototyping of iot applicaitons  

		Future use for this streaming library include client side streaming processing jobs for non data rate intensive programming 

		Example:
			compute a point wise kpi with to streams and a constant w/ frp:
				just write:
					n * (x+y)
					n * (stream(x) + stream(y))
						// produce tuple stream (already done)
						// n is lifted into a constant stream

			example: use mouse position stream
				define 'hold' where if the mouse stops at a specific value then those static coordinates  
	
	2. end of semester goals

		Exploratory analysis for FRP as a solution. 

		Implement basic Nodejs streaming clients with an server(Express) backend for processing the streams into kpi calculation

		Create a Nodejs streaming library, using both delarative and imparative paradigms, supporting at least one protocol for function composition
	
	3. technologies	

		Nodejs (using javascript over scala as it's more widely used and there is a market need for web developers to use streaming function composition)

TODO:
	1. Polish up the presentation statements for tomorrow
	2. Set up the outlook shared folder 
	3. Read and take notes on the FRP articles
	4. Come up with Questions/Suggestions for Tian meeting (set this up) later this week 
			FRP
			Stream library Nodejs/ how js handles streams
			Functional composition
			


nmcli dev wifi
nmcli --ask con up UWMWiFi

